# The AI Marketing Workflow You Can’t Ignore In 2025 (Ep. 350)

- Video title: The AI Marketing Workflow You Can’t Ignore In 2025 (Ep. 350)
- Channel name: Authority Hacker Podcast
- URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NOCvI45wMdM
- Publish date: 2024-11-18

## Transcript

I think there's still going to be a job for marketers, but if you don't know how to do the stuff that we talked about today, you will be replaced by someone who knows how to do it. We actually have improved user metrics by using AI. One-click article generators and whatnot. They are. They're almost universally bad. But why? Sometimes I've heard you talking about the AI just isn't giving you good output today, so you try again later. It happens. I run the same agents on ChatGPT with custom GPTs,

and the output was so much worse. Marketers will still have work in the future if they are able to build these tools and they have a vision for what they want to do. It's not so much the fact that the AI models have gotten a lot better, which they have, and we'll get into that, but it's the way we interact with them that seems to have driven more meaningful change within our companies. Are you tired of shelling out big bucks for AI tools that promise convenience

but deliver a hefty price tag instead? Well, you're not alone. In today's episode, we expose the truth about overpriced AI productivity tools and reveal how you can achieve so much more with customised, cost-effective alternatives that you build yourself. With just a bit of creativity and some tools like Zapier, you can build your own solutions completely tailored to your needs. And you can do this for a fraction of the price you'd pay otherwise with zero coding skills required. So stay tuned to find out how we've more than doubled our marketing productivity

and reduced our costs by over 80% by building these workflows. Today's episode of the Authority Hacker Podcast is sponsored by Search Intelligence. But for now, let's get started. Okay, so to turn things around, today I'm going to be interviewing you, Gael, and I want to start, if we can, by talking about projects in Claude, because it's not so much the fact that the AI models have gotten a lot better, which they have, and we'll get into that. But it's the way we interact with them change within our company.

So tell us what is a project and how are we using it and how has it changed the game? Okay, so a project is basically the Anthropic version of custom GPTs. It basically allows you to... What's a custom GPT in case someone doesn't know that? Basically, a Claude project is a chatbot, the original version you get from OpenAI or from Claude, etc, the chatbot that you're used to that you get to customise. There's two ways to customise it. The first thing is the system prompt. That's what you can see

on my screen if you're watching the video version of this. But in case, it's just a box where you can put some text where you give information about how the chat should act. It's not just going to be basically answering your questions. It's assuming a role. You can see in this case on my screen now, you can see you are now a senior email copywriter for Authority Hacker. Your role is to craft high converting, engaging email copy or email series copy based on the notes provided for specific campaigns.

You have a keen understanding of persuasive writing techniques, audience psychology, and the unique voice of Authority Hacker. It's like, I encourage the role. It's personality, who you are Mr. AI agent rather than what to do specifically. But most importantly, it tells it what knowledge to tap into because these models, they're trained on everything. But now it's like, okay, you want me to be an email copywriter? What do I know about being a copywriter? So there's all the reflection that will go behind on how to act like a copywriter,

what does a copywriter do, what are the techniques that they use, etc. So you can have like, anchor it in its role. And after that, I tell it how to do its work. So I'm like, oh, review my campaign notes, then use the guidelines to actually inform yourself of how to write. So I give you the document on the guidelines. We're going to go in that in a second. Then inspire your writing based on the swipe file that is provided to you. And you also have a file with like formats

that you can use, basically. And then it tells it how to work. First, analyse the campaign notes and instructions. Choose the most appropriate email format. That's from the format file that is given to it. Draw inspiration from the swipe file. Then write the subject line that encourages opens, then write the email copy, following the writing guidelines, then review your copy and refine it. So it really tells it. Think about like an SOP, basically, an SOP for AI and how it should work. And then after that, it just tells it,

put the email and the email copy, and then for each email, give me five subject lines and then a pre-header, which is essentially what you see after the subject line on Gmail, like the little bit of the text that you can actually customise. So it doesn't have to be the first words of your email and you can optimise that for open rate. Give me the email body, give me a CTA, right? And it's like, if you have strategic notes or explanation for your choices, include them into the copyright

or notes after the copy of your email. So that's what an agent is. You basically give it like It's personality, a set of instruction, how to think, etc. And then you can attach files to it. You can see, for example, I have an email swipe file here. It's just a text file. What I've done is I went to collect what I thought were some of the best emails from email marketers out there. Whenever you make a swipe file for an agent, you're like, who's

the best at what I'm trying to do? So that I can train my agent on that writing style, basically. That's pretty much what an agent is. You can use it for so many things. We're going to talk about I'm using the email one now. If you're on our email list, you've received a lot of emails that at least the first version has been written by it, but we're obviously still editing them, etc. But that really gets you different outputs. It's fair to say then that

the two elements that make this good are the research you do into the swipe files and that side of things, and then a long thought process in describing how you should execute a task. Because you're forced to really define that step by step, we improve and refine our own processes, and that just makes it better. But you can do all that, or you have to do that within the project in order for it to work. Yeah, and the thing is everyone's waiting for a better AI model, so it's going

to be able to do more work, etc. The truth is these AI models, they're already very capable for a lot of work, but it's going to take some prompting. The prompting can literally double the quality of the output. We're going to run a live example. I ran an example before this podcast to show you the output that I get from this bot, for example. But yeah, you need to think a lot about it. And there are tools to help you. So I'm going to talk about the Anthropic Console later

that I use to actually help me craft prompts that allow it to do better. But really, building a bot like that takes me a day or two. It's not so fast. It's not like, oh, I'm quickly swiping, opening ChatGPT and just typing, write me an email for this. Here's five bullet points on how to do it. There's actually lots of content. If I open this file file and for people who have the video, they can see me scroll. There's a lot of emails in there that you can train on.

The writing guidelines, they're not so small either. There's quite a bit of stuff to think about. The email formats, there's quite a bit of formats with key considerations and description, where it works, where it doesn't work. It has a lot of context. That's where I think you're going to differentiate yourself. It's like most people are lazy and it's like they get their work done last minute and they just swipe up, they open ChatGPT and they write five bullets on their prompts and they think they're prompt engineering.

The people who actually are going to get quality work out of AI are going to put that work ahead. We're going to see a lot of examples of that in this podcast, basically. What is prompt engineering then? Explain to me the process for how you go through to come up with this. I think of AI being the genie in Aladdin. You could wish for a million dollars, but then you might be in the back of a truck with a million dollars stolen from a bank the second later

with the police behind you. If that's what you wish for, you still got your million dollars, but it's not in the context that you wanted to enjoy it. The point of prompt engineering is that you cover all the bases, so AI outputs exactly what you want, which is more tricky than it sounds. There's always issues, but the Anthropic Console is very helpful with that. We're just going to jump in a second. But do you want to see an example first of how I use this tool, actually?

I took an example from Product Review Profit, which is a course we launched earlier. This is the bot that I showed you, the one I prompted. All I gave it I gave it a copy of the sales page for the product. It's long, right? I just copy pasted that in there. I just wrote 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 bullet points on what I want the email to be, but I didn't write anything. Because it has so much context and I've done all the work before when

I've prompted, I've made my swipes, etc. I just had to say, write an email based on Jared's journey with the programme. Write it like a Shonen. It's like that hero story of you have problems, you solve them, etc. With strong storytelling, focusing on engagement. We want the reader to put himself in his shoes and inspire them to follow the same journey. Use visualisation to achieve this. Imagine if you could, if you could only... This like putting yourself in the shoes of the person. And with the CTA inspiring the reader

to solve their issues by following into Jared's footstep, reminding them of the strongest points of the offer. Sorry. Just to cut you off here, though. You have come up with these bullet points yourself. That's full manual. That's human work. That's me being the I'm a movie director here. That's me. This is the vision I have for this email, but I can't be bothered finding the words. I don't have time. It would take quite a bit of work to craft something that's well story told, etc, basically.

It's interesting because I'm thinking this from the perspective of if you hired an email copywriter, a human, to do this for you, you're probably not going to include basic instructions like you have here, appeal to their emotions and reason, or write this from the point of view of Gael Breton, because there's a common sense element that humans have. So it's fair to say that you're almost telling it what to do and telling it how to have common sense at the same time here. It's also like I'm communicating my vision.

If I hired a copywriter, I might not tell them that, but quite often they will also miss it, actually. For example, one of the points is like, despite the storytelling, keep it concise and engaging. Our subscribers have low attention span, and I put thanks TikTok after that. But the idea is like, it's like, yeah, this is probably a point I would still give to a human copywriter, for example, because if I say storytelling, I would expect they're going to give me a really long email. I'm like, no, I want storytelling,

but you know what? Don't make it too long. People don't read long emails. And so like, yeah, it's like I still have the vision, and I think that's the thing. Like marketers will still have work They have an idea of how they want to sell this. It's like you do the very high level of the work and you just pass it on to the AI. If you want, we can check the copy, which I think was pretty good. This is like a one shot. I just dropped this.

We had an email a bit like that during the launch, but it's not exactly that. But it's like, let's read the email. Have you ever had that sinking feeling when you realise everything you built is crumbling? That's exactly what happened to my friend Jared last year. Picture this. You're crushing it with your niche sites, leaving the dream of location freedom when suddenly, bam, Google updates hit, traffic vanishes, income disappears. Sounds familiar? That's where Jared found himself in 2023. A decade of SEO expertise suddenly felt worthless.

But that's where it gets interesting. Just before the disaster truck, Jared discovered something that could save his online income, the Amazon Influencer Program. I'm not going to read the whole thing, but you see that it's very well written, very well paced, very engaging. I would argue, better than many paid copywriters you could find on Upwork, actually. That doesn't sound like AI. It sounds like a well copyrighted email, and that's because it's so pre-prompted with all the examples, with all of that. It's the context that makes really all the difference there.

If you just took that prompt and gave that to ChatGPT with no background, then it's going to give you something cookie-cutter, something generic that sounds a bit naff. Yeah, but this has our tone of voice, this has everything. It's like, I would not change a lot to this email if I was sending it to sell. Does it therefore make sense to only use these projects on Claude when you're executing a repeatable process? You generate emails every week. You can, but the thing is you can prompt it quite broad.

My email copyrighter tool, we use it both to promote the podcast and the news videos and also launches, etc. You can make one bot that can handle all your email. It's broad enough and smart enough to do that. But I would not use the same bot to make blog posts, to make social posts, to do all of that. The rules are different. I would argue even for social media, I would probably make one per network because different content works differently in different places. There is overlap here, though.

If you're saying if you want to have a description of who Authority Hacker is, that same description, you're using it in multiple places, right? It's just there's a bit of fine-tuning for each use case. You could use it. I could use this tool and just ask it to write me a description. It would be okay. It would be more in line with what we need than just the default Claude. The reason I'm using Claude, by the way, we haven't said, but I think the Claude

model is by far the most eloquent one. You saw the copy I'm getting here. It's pretty good. Just to be clear, this is Claude 3.5 Sonnet that you're using right now. Yeah, which is like the bread and butter smartest model at this point. They discontinued their Opus model, the smartest one, because Sonet is actually better now, and they don't have the 3.5 Opus yet. That's the one. In general, Claude just writes better. I run the same agents on ChatGPT with custom GPTs, and the output was

so much worse that I would not use it. When I built something like this, I was like, Yeah, I can use this. This is great. It's not a case where one gets better and then the other one gets better. It's like you have to keep changing back and forth. For writing, not so much. For coding, for all of that, yes. For writing, Claude has been ahead for six months now. It might change eventually. And OpenAI got a bit better, but this quality of-Claude is also not

connected to the internet, is that right? No. It's good for this and mostly this and coding, basically. It's good at it. But for my day-to-day chatting stuff and asking questions, I actually use ChatGPT. So Claude is really my copy generator and code generator chatbot. It's quite superior, but that's the only use of it. It's the one I use for work. I never use it outside of work, almost. And now for a quick word from the episode sponsor, Search Intelligence. What a masterpiece PR link building campaign.

With 20 links in big publications such as The Sun, Express, Mirror, Wales Online, And still landing, I would say this campaign is a massive success. We told the press that people should turn on their heating this summer if they want to save money next winter. And we landed over 20 links in national and regional UK publications for our boiler client. That's crazy. The campaign hook was pretty clever. It is a known fact, at least in the boiler trade, that if you keep your boiler

off for many months, it might rust and it might get you into trouble if you keep it turned off from spring to next winter. We, therefore, advise the press with an expert commentary piece on behalf of our boiler client that people should turn on their boiler this summer just when the heat wave is in full swing. This way, they can avoid a boiler failure next winter and save money. Massive publications picked up our story, including The Sun, Express, Mirror, Wales Online, and a few more dozen publications,

giving our client links, lots of links, and lots of happiness hormones. No wonder that so many journalists covered our story as this headline is a massive link magnet to their audience. This case study highlights the fact that a clever hook can be applied to any insight or story to make a campaign more successful and more compelling to journalists. Can you imagine when people see this headline in the news, you should turn on your boiler this summer. There's no way they will not click on it. I would click on it.

So this was the hook, and this is why this campaign was so successful. I hope this video inspires and shows you what's possible with a clever hook. Thanks again to the sponsor from today's episode, Search Intelligence. And now back to the episode. So these bots, we actually use them for many things. So this was an email one because I had to show you one. But we use it for blog posts. Let's talk about that because blog content, when AI came out, when ChatGPT came out, was probably

the first thing that most online marketers, most website owners, most bloggers started using it for. And we have all these myriad of tools, one It's not like article generators and whatnot. Why are we able to make Claude do a better job than all of these tools? That's the thing. You will not see us in this podcast promote expensive AI tools that specialise in one thing that are made for marketers, etc. Because you can beat all of these by making your own agents and by a large margin.

I challenge to find me a tool that would generate a better email than the one I actually generated earlier with the same level of prompting, i.e. Seven bullet points and the sales page copy. I have an example, for example. We do it for templated posts. It's almost like semi-programmatic SEO, but manual. We still check stuff. This one is like best cat affiliate programs, for example. The way it works, we actually use Perplexity to find information about the affiliate programmes. Do you want to just explain what Perplexity

is for those who haven't used it before? I actually have it here. Perplexity is basically a search engine. I'd be like, let's say I find cat affiliate programmes. I maybe look at my competition. It's like Smalls, apparently is an affiliate programme. I'd be like Smalls cat affiliate programme info. And then what it's going to do is it's actually going to brainstorm search terms. It's going to go read the web pages and it's going to go and find me information about that affiliate programme. So you can see 24% commission

on trial purchases, which is pretty good. We'll maybe get into that in a bit more detail later. I think we got a section on that coming up. It's basically a way for you to do an online search and get all the information summarised and aggregated in a nice usable way without having to-You can go deeper. Through the websites. You can make custom agents inside Perplexity if you want so the output is actually the way you want it. But like you can see, I know it's on the impact affiliate network.

I know the affiliate network, I know the cookie duration, I know the commission rate on trial purchases, there's some benefits. It's a nice place to start your research. What we do is we basically do research with Perplexity, then we just put a lot of bullet points together. This is another blog post on how to get paid with Amazon reviews. But the point is, we write a pretty detailed outline, very similar to what you've learned in TASS or Pro if you've actually gone through our content writing research.

I guess we were ahead of our time at this point because it's-That's it. I've noticed I love that a lot. When we've been creating online courses and tutorials, it forces you to really break down your own process that you do for this thing in a way that... Is that the best way to do it? Is that the best way to teach it? Are other people going to get that? And it's really the exact same process when you're trying to prompt engineer AI in a way. Yeah, exactly.

So we've done that, and then we basically have a blog post. I don't know if it's this project, but same thing. It has a prompt, it has writing guidelines, it has a swipe file, and it has About Us, which is essentially information about the company. Then you essentially post your curated notes in there, and then we have a prompt. I don't have it here, but we have a prompt, and it generates copy section by section, essentially for these things. It just generates literally the copy you're seeing here.

It's minimally edited inside Notion, but the thing is we've actually looked at the engagement metrics and the new ones are written with AI, are more concise and more to the point. We had better engagement actually on them. It's a qualitative approach to it, not a shitty version of it. The important thing is we had manually written hundreds of these articles before in that exact format. We knew exactly what we were doing. It wasn't like we started out by just giving a very basic prompt to do that.

We knew where we were trying to get to, and so it was just a case of trying to get it there. It took us a while, It wasn't like we put that out in a couple of days. It took us two weeks or something to make this bot. It took a long time. I felt, Oh, my God. You need to really front load the work with AI. It's not like it's no work. It takes a long time. But there's actually new tools that I think make it easier.

I think it's the opportunity to jump on this actually right now. This is the Anthropic Console that you are seeing on my screen right now. You can go on that. Anthropic, by the way, that's the company that owns-Behind Claude. Claude, yeah. The console is basically where you get your API key, etc. That's the other side of... It's not the public chatbot, it's the one with the API key. But they have a tool that essentially allows you to generate prompts. I clicked that button already. You write a prompt.

I wrote a prompt that's okay, but it's not insane, basically. I wrote, You are a copywriter writer, your job is to create high engagement and converting email copy for Authority Hacker email subscribers. You'll be provided with the following documents in your training database, the Authority Hacker guideline, used to shape the tone of voice, Authority Hacker target market, used to understand who you're writing for, their pains and desires. Great email swipe. Use it to inspire your writing style closely. Email format SOP. Use this for email formats that you

can use and how to write each of them, sorry, by following the instructions. And I just put always think step by step. Your job is incredibly important to the company and you'll be rewarded handsomely if you're doing that, a good job. And the reason I say that is because there's actually some studies that say that if you say that to AI, it does a better job. So it's like an okay prompt, but that's what you would write when you wipe up ChatGPT. The thing is, they actually

baked in all the prompting generating best practises into that tool. So if I click Generate, it actually is going to take my prompt. It's going to use AI to make a better version of it. So you can see that it took that prompt and now it actually wrote it by explaining exactly what's inside each thing. It gives it the step-by-step way to think about it, and it does that. It's like, I get that. Normally, you're supposed to-Can I just ask, why don't they just bake this into

behind the scenes when you enter a prompt, it runs it through something like this before executing it. Why do you have to do this manually? They do a little bit. They do a little bit of that. But the thing is, it takes time. Imagine generating the prompt, generating the answer. See, here, I actually have variables that I need to fill, like the writing guidelines, etc. I would need to rewrite it a little bit because this would be something I use in Zapier, maybe. I would just put dynamic content here.

But the point is that this is slow. That's what, essentially, the new O1 model from OpenAI does. It just thinks and it just does it. But what's really interesting is- Can you just explain that? Because we talked about Sonnet and Opus and these models. What does O1 mean and how is that relevant to this? The O1 model is basically a reasoning model from OpenAI. It's supposed to be better at math and logic and reasoning and everything. What it does, it just prompts itself. You ask a question, it brainstorms sub

questions, it brainstorms the answer to the sub questions, then it reads the answers to the sub question and uses all the context to give you a better answer in the end, basically. It's very slow, but it's a bit smarter. It's a way to fight the fact that these models are now scaling a bit slower than they did two years ago. It's like they It's going to keep making it smarter by having it prompt itself, basically. That's what you saw here. But what's interesting is, let's say I

have this prompt here and I test it. I'm like, You know what? The emails are a little bit fluffy. I think they're too wordy and not impactful enough. They now have an improve prompt button I can click on. I'm like, I like it, but the emails are too fluffy/wordy and not impactful enough in their copy. I would just give it the feedback, and I run the improver. And this is the crazy part. It runs a six-step process where it's going to map out how to improve the prompt and essentially

brainstorm what to add in there. So you can see it's actually making a flow chart of instructions of how it works. And it's just going to basically make the prompt way better with you just chatting with it through running multiple things. So it runs an initial draft. Then it's going to review its initial draft, then it's going to make a better version, it's going to give me the final version. So that's what's happening here. That's very much how I'm doing a lot of my prompting. It takes time.

You see, it's like it's planning the revision right now. It's giving itself feedback, and then eventually it's going to give me a better version of that. It's not like you do this once and then you have the perfect output. There's a lot of trial and error. I think these companies, they run to compute issues. It's like they're running out of GPUs to compute everything. They probably scale down the power some days per query. That gives you less good answers. But you can see now it gave me

a better version of the prompt on thing. It's like I could open it in my workbench, I could test it, and then after that, I can give it more feedback. Essentially, that's my prompt refinement system for my agents. That's how I do that. And I spent days doing that, and eventually I get something that's actually good. So that's the trick. This is still relatively manual. You're obviously building repeatable processes in here. But we've also done a lot to connect this to other parts of the business using tools like Zapier.

Can you talk about some of the use cases there and what are the benefits of that have been? I'll give you a cool one. This is our meetings database in Notion. Let's just expand that. Let's just go to my sidebar. What it does is essentially whenever we do a Google Meet, actually, we forgot to record this one. We should have recorded this one, but whatever. The thing is, it takes the transcript that is generated by Google Meet. I'm not actually transcribing with AI. You could. But what I like about grabbing

the transcript is because it picks up my microphone data and your microphone data. Let's say we talk over each other, it's still going to have the perfect words. It's also going to put my name and your name in front of... This is a meeting we had this morning, right? This is all done inside Google Meet when you go click the record button and record transcript, check your box below that. Exactly. It takes that transcript and essentially it will run it against a bunch of prompts. You can see, actually, it checks

if there's a new meet recording. It finds the file, it gets the content here on Zapier, then it starts sending to Claude. I'm actually a cheap ass because I'm using the cheaper model from Claude. I'm using the new Haiku 3.5. It costs three times less than Sonnet. For summarization and things like that, it's just smart enough. It doesn't really change anything. This is like an internal document we're using just to get a summary of it. If we're creating external content, then we'd go for the more expensive model, right?

But the thing is, you get so much more from the cheap models by prompting them properly. Again, I run this through my prompt machine, and you can see that's the prompt. It's a long in front with all the guidelines and everything. Can you just give a summary for people who are listening on audio, maybe? What are you asking it to do for this meeting? You're curating its role. You're an executive assistant. You're tasked to create concise meeting summaries from transcripts. Your goal is to provide clear

bullet point summary of key points discussed during the meeting, allowing executives to quickly grasp the essence of the discussion. It gives you the transcript and just writing guidelines. Where a lot of this came from is we wanted to use or we're looking at using tools like Fathom or Otter, which will come in, record your meeting, and give you the summary. But then it was like, well, if we want all the advanced features, it's 30 bucks a month for 10 people or whatever, 300 bucks.

And you can't custom prompt it as well. I think my version is better. Starting to get expensive. So we basically built that internally using Zapier for free. Well, not free, but for a very minimal cost. We pay like $0.05 per meeting process. It's stupidly cheap. But most important-5 cents an hour? For it? Is that that little? Well, it's not transcribing because it's just taking the transcript from Google Meet. We're saving lots of this. It's just analysing. I'm using just the cheap model from Anthropic to just generate output.

And the input is cheap. It's like $1 per million token. So it's very cheap to input lots of stuff. And the output is pretty small because it's summaries. So yeah, it's pretty cheap actually. But you can see the summaries, but also, for example, action items is something I'm really happy with. There's agreed action items and mentioned action items. It's like a good action item. Actually, when I mention something we should do, it actually checks if everyone agrees to it. And if everyone agrees to it

on the call, it will put it in the agreed action item list. And if we just mention an action item, but it actually is not necessarily agreed by everyone or it really was left open-ended, it will just put it in mentioned. If I'm in charge of the call-This is a classic meeting issue when you have, especially when you have a lot of people in something creative. You talk about something, but you never really are like, alright, what's the final decision here? Sometimes it happens, but often it doesn't.

So that's what it picks up, and it's really, really helpful in that situation. Yeah, I really like it. I get the item assigned to me when I did the call. I assign it to the podcast and I'm like, Oh, we need to put tasks here. And I just grab this and it's like, I just read this. And then it takes the call and it makes chapters for different topics and it just gives you three to four bullet points for each chapter. So the point is, you never have

to read the transcript and you don't even have to on many calls, actually. Now it's like I'm like, you know what? I'll skip the call. I'll read the transcript. I'll read the notes from AI. And so, yeah, that's one of the things I'm doing. And we're going to use it for many things. So, for example, this podcast, I want to build a system that actually takes the recording from the podcast and then it acts like a podcast coach trained on the best podcast in the industry and gives us feedback

on what we did well and what we did not well so that we can start having some thoughts on how to improve on how to do the next podcast, for example. So there's lots and lots of uses to this. You need to have a bit of imagination. But overall, it's so powerful. We also want to tie that into the production side of things. If we have an issue or an editing issue, we can actually just stop and say something in the podcast, in the recording. The transcript will pick that up,

and then it'll automatically start generating insights for our editing team so they know what to look for when they're editing. Yeah. That's pretty much like Zapier. I'm building lots of automations around that. Again, it's not something you can just do by I'm opening ChatGPT in two minutes and doing it. These are projects that you spend a few hours on and so on. But this meeting thing has already bought me back the time that I spent on it immediately. It's essentially what Zapier lets you

do is trigger any AI prompt or project based on any AI action, anything that happens in your business, right? But connected with Notion, it's really powerful. That's the next thing I want to talk about. It's like Notion, right? Notion AI is actually also really cool and I really like it. There's two different things. There's Notion and Notion AI, which is a new feature within Notion. Just explain why they've released AI and why it's not such a gimmicky thing in this context. It's less powerful than like, Claude and so on.

It's not nearly as good. But the thing is because it has all the context of your Notion workspace. If you document things well, like your tasks, your meetings in that case, for example, etc, you can actually use it. It will give you answers that are personalised to whatever's happening in your workspace, and that saves you so much time. So there's three levels I'm going to show you, basically. The first one is just the summary. So for example, I have this list. I have a call with the guys from

Bento email the other day, and we talked about list cleaning, basically. We talked about that. And so I have some insight. And just like, instead of reading the whole note, I can just have a quick AI summary on top of the note and see what's going on before I just dive in. It just saves me a lot of time. And I'll talk in a minute on how I generated this note because there's another trick here. Actually, let's just do it now because I know it's going to be overlapping,

but I think it's going to be interesting. So to generate this note, I actually did not write this. I like it because it's concise and easy to go through. But I'm actually using a tool called MacWhisper. So MacWhisper, this is a desktop tool, actually, but it's a transcription tool. It's using the Whisper model from OpenAI that allows you to take video or images or YouTube videos or podcasts or whatever. It gives you a file. And so you can see, for example, I took one of our testimonials.

It's processing it right now, and it's essentially giving me the transcript. And what's happening is that you can use that transcript for other things. But in the case of this note, it actually works also on your desktop where you can actually press a button. In my case, I use the right comment key, and then it's going to record, and essentially transcribe that, which is fine. But what it does is before it actually pastes the content that it transcribed, it runs it through an AI model.

I'm actually going to show the settings. If I go into settings, I go into dictation. Then you can see I have this cleanup thing with GPT-4.0 mini because I'm a cheap ass, and this is just cleaning it up. I don't need to get the best model. Essentially, the cleanup is going to take what you said and it's going to clean up your notes without removing all the hesitation and everything. Let's just show a quick demo for it. I'll press a button and I'll be like, I was How to say?

I was planning the podcast with Mark and we didn't really know what to talk about. What we did is, I don't know, we just decided that we're going to talk about the AI tools we use and how we use them internally and let's see how it goes. I'm doing this, and now it's going to clean up what I said. You can see it on the top left of my window. You can see that the text pasted is actually a lot... It removes all the hesitation.

It got rid of all the pause words and nonsense. The thing is, then I'll do that and I'll just click the improve writing thing by Notion AI. Then it's going to actually give me, while playing the podcast with Mark, we were initially unsure about the topic. We ultimately decided to discuss AI tools we use and how to implement them internally. I'll be interesting to see how the conversation unfolds. You see what I said, the versus what's actually on my notes. That's also a really powerful use of AI.

In this case, I ask it to do bullets, but that's actually one of the processes I use to input in there. It's like whenever I have thoughts or whatever, I just go on the note, I press that key, and then it will just give me a cleaned up version, and I can ask Notion AI to reformat it the way I want. Really, really powerful thing. So that's the first use of Notion AI for me. The second one is actually, I showed you, but it's actually the AI in editing.

ChatGPT, Claude, etc. It's cool, but when you work on long pieces of content, so this is a script that you're seeing on that script for the AH News video, which is like, these are sometimes 15 minutes and there's lots of words. It's like editing this with AI is almost impossible. If I want to change it to part of it or something, it doesn't work. But actually, like, Notion AI is the best inline editor with AI. I could be like, ask AI, and then here

I'd be like, let's see, who's going to fill the massive gap in a search result. I would say, make it more dramatic to enhance engagement. Then it's just going to take that and it's just going to improve it. For these little rewrites like this when we work on scripts, it's super handy actually. You can see that now the edit on my screen is like, but brace yourself for the million dollar question that's about to send a shockwave through the SEO world. Okay, maybe a bit much, but you get the idea.

It actually will do what you want. For working on long pieces of content, it's very handy. I like to generate the first draught on Claude. Then after that, when we jump in Notion, Notion AI is very good for inline editing, and I just give it feedback like I would in a comment, for example, on Google Docs. Question, doesn't ChatGPT have some inline editor now or coming out soon? They do, but one cool thing that Notion AI is really cool is you can actually mention documents. Let's say you have

writing guidelines, right? We don't have them now. We actually need to do them. But I'll be like, make this more dramatic, and then I'll be following, and then I would like writing guidelines. This doesn't exist at this point. So I put this one. And it actually takes the content of the page you mentioned and it's going to actually follow these guidelines. So it's a really cool interface if you build your own your own thing. And so that's my next step now is optimising inline editing with Notion, building these pages

that you can refer to. It has all the custom instructions, and then you prompt in a few words, and it does the rest. ChatGPT has it, but I still find this more useful. It's like you can't... Let's say you paste a really long thing like that. ChatGPT cannot even put it in the canvas thing that it has because it needs to be write it with AI in the canvas. It's going to run out of tokens. It's either going to summarise, change the words, or it's It's going

to run out and stop, basically. It's not ideal. Notion AI for this is really quite powerful, actually. It's like the last 10% you use Notion AI for rather than any content creation part. Then the last one I like to use it for is actually the chat. So you actually have a chat here and it's like, you can use it like ChatGPT. If you just want to pay one subscription, like Notion AI at nine bucks a month, it's pretty good because you could ask a question.

You'd be like, How to tie your shoelaces? And then that your works if you want. Is it going to search our workspace for that? Normally, the thing with Notion AI is it actually searches your workspace. But no, in this case, it just tells me how to tie my shoelaces. Not very useful, but let's do a new chat. But It could be like, what did John do yesterday, for example? And then I'm tagging someone in our workspace. What he's going to do is he's going

to look at all the tasks he ticked, all the projects he updated, everything that happened. You can finding all these documents, basically. And as a result, it's going to give me an answer that is relevant to that. So you can see Jonathan did the team meeting where they discussed the various topics on organisation on Notion. Why? Because actually we have that database. The only reason it's able to know what happened in that call is because you created that system where the full transcripts get pulled in and it's stored in Notion.

So again, it's all about consolidating your context so that you can ask really deep questions like this. And so you can see, Jon was added to Tag Manager account by Gael. And it's like you click on it, it actually opens the task about add Jon to Google Tag Manager and see the status is done. So it's really, really powerful, catching up on what happens when you're working with many people. And I think it's just going to get better. That's why I'm very annoying with the team

on documenting everything on Notion, etc. Because I can see how as these things get better, this is going to be an unfair advantage that you can have over pretty much everyone. I mean, it already starting to be a bit of an unfair advantage in terms of how much we can get done content creation-wise with such a small team. Yeah, and we're going to make it 10 times better. That's pretty much the goal. And that's using these tools. But you see how we're not approaching AI

in a way of like, Oh, let's spend as much content as possible or scale it up or whatever. It's more like a qualitative approach and using AI to assist you and do all the mundane stuff, catching up on meetings and so on and tasks and so on. So you can focus on the high-level stuff, giving it instructions and have it do the writing and finalise it yourself, basically. That's Notion for you, actually. Okay, so one thing that's enabled us to do a lot of this is that the models,

certainly since their initial release, have gotten significantly better. What does the future of that look like? Are we on an exponential increase or are things starting to plateau a bit? How is this going to change what we're doing over the next 6-12 months? Yeah, I think it's both, actually. I think the models probably won't progress as fast anymore, but I think we have so much at hand already with what we have. It hasn't been used properly yet. I really want Notion AI to start writing tasks for me, for example.

The models are good enough to do that. It's just a matter of them implementing it. Same with the podcast feedback system that we talked about. It's good enough already. It's just a matter of implementing it. I feel like, you know how when we invented the smartphone, the iPhone, it took 10 years for us to have Uber, to have the food delivery, to be able to pay all your bills on it, etc. But probably the first iPhone could do that already. We're very much in that situation

where we don't even need better tech. We need more implementation of that in our day-to-day life. We already have life-changing tech. It's going to change so much of what we do and do so much of what we do. You can see these agents I'm doing, right? This will be productised eventually and people will eventually reach that level of of being able to do this quality output, etc. That's going to change marketing. For example, our email marketing. Now we A/B test entire copy of emails because it's generating the copy.

It's so simple. That changes things a lot. We do so much more because of that. So, yeah, there's going to be a massive productivity gain in marketing. Now, if the models slow down, it means they won't replace you. It means you still need to give the top bullet points, etc. If I ask Claude to make me a strategy for selling PLP, it will not do as good as what done, for example. So I think there's still going to be a job for marketers. But if you don't know how to do

the stuff that we talked about today, you will be replaced by someone who does who knows how to do it. It doesn't mean it's all it's all amazing. But I think for the next 10 years, there's going to be a lot of work in implementing these things in businesses. And it's going to take a long time, actually. Depending on how good the business, the models get, they might be able to do some implementation themselves. But like I can imagine, Notion, eventually building Notion AI, they'd be like, hey,

Can you give me a system that logs my calls and makes all of these, etc. I could do it. Yeah, I think it's exciting because you have brand new tools. If you haven't done well, essentially in the past cycle, you have an opportunity of a big reset right now because a lot of work that took a lot of time can be done very quickly. And so essentially you have a competitive advantage that is erased for a lot of people. And so that's why, internally,

a lot of my focus is I'm not even focusing as much on what we're doing. I'm focusing on how we're doing things because I think there's a big paradigm shift on productivity around knowledge work in general and building these templates and systems. This isn't like a 20% productivity. This is like a 3,000%. No, it's 200. It's a lot. It's a lot, but building these things, building one of these systems I showed you, the call log, etc. Yeah, it took me a day and a half. It's not something that

you will do in five minutes. The thing is, 95% of people are too lazy to do it. It's just the same as everything. You have that opportunity today to learn this stuff that is extremely valuable. A lot of businesses will pay a lot of money to do that, and nobody else is going to do it. That leads me to my last question then. I know there's going to be people out there that have watched this and thinking, Oh, that sounds really cool, but some of that's

a little bit over my head. How the hell do I get started with this? Where do you point those people? Honestly, pick a small project and build it. That's why I like Notion because it's like you don't need to code to actually... You can build a Zapier and Notion or make. com and Notion, and you can build essentially programmes without coding anything because you can make the automation that does things connecting to the APIs. It's just putting an API key, putting a prompt, whatever. Then you can make a database

in Notion that receives the output and you can organise it the way you want without having to code an app in front-end or something like that. Essentially, Notion becomes your interface for whatever output you're doing. The Claude project as well is just words, right? We're literally talking about writing words, uploading text files. There's no tech here. There's just you picking up the logic and it's like, yeah, just go to watch videos like this one. You've watched this one. There's more videos like that. The guys at Marketing Against The Grain.

Yeah, I was going to ask which content creators have actual good content on this? Because I'm in that situation right now. It feels like 2007 SEO, where the only people creating content on this have super hypey thumbnails with robot faces and all that stuff. It puts me off a little bit because I feel like it's more hype than substance. Here's the thing. Remember MacWhisper? I do a lot of that. It's like, yeah, some of these videos, these tutorials, etc, they're 30 minutes and they're all hype. I'm like, you know what?

I don't have 30 minutes to gamble on this video. But I can copy paste the URL in MacWhisper, transcribe it, and then you can chat with the transcript in MacWisper. So you can ask a question, be like, hey, Write me a step by step breakdown of the tactics discussed in this video. And I read that, I'm like, is it worth my time or not? So it's like you can use AI to save yourself time as well by doing this. I'm building a system for us right now

where you'll be able to bookmark YouTube videos and it does it for you, basically. But yeah, it's like use AI to save yourself time on consuming content and then consume the content where the summary looks good enough. The same as our call, right? It's like we have the summary, then we have the extended summary, and then you can read the whole thing if you really want to or go watch the recording of the call. So you can compress your time by doing this. I like the guys at Marketing

Against The Grain. Sometimes, I would say half of the episodes on AI are good and half are just basic, let's say. But some of them have been having me lots of ideas, especially around Claude projects. It started that way, but I took it a bit further, I think. But other than that, just compressed. Because even these hype-y videos, they might have something interesting. It's just like this 10 minutes of bullshit and then 2 minutes of useful stuff. But you can summarise it with AI.

I hope they won't be mad because that's what they're teaching people to do. And experiment. Make small projects. Notions plus Zapier or Make and Claude projects don't require any technical skill. If you say you can't do it, it's because you tell yourself you can't do it, but everyone can do this. Great. Well, I think we'll wrap up there then. Any final words? No, just get started with that stuff. Yeah, pick a small project and do it. I gave you so many examples in this podcast. Just do the same thing.

Pick something that you need to do many times and build an AI agent for it. I'll let us know how you get on in the comments below. And also, if you have any questions about this episode, I know we went into a lot. We will put a link in the description of the YouTube video where we have all the links to the various tools and things like that that we're covered in the episode as well, so you can go check that out. Otherwise, we'll be back

in two weeks for another episode. So see you then. And if you like this video, you'll also like this video right here. So go check that one out.
