# New from Google: How to Rank in AI Search

- Video title: New from Google: How to Rank in AI Search
- Channel name: Marie Haynes
- URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hOl5BYYkMxs
- Publish date: 2026-05-15

## Transcript

Google just published some new documentation on what it takes to get shown by the AI features in Google Search and I thought I would go through it live with you as there's a few interesting things in here that I think are worth taking note of. Google says that people are increasingly gravitating to generative AI experiences. I know when AI overviews first came out, remember it was called SGE and they were horrible. They really were not accurate a lot of the time and people didn't like

them. But now I find myself that I'm using the AI answers for a lot of things. So one of the discussions that I have with my clients often is is it even worthwhile to be in these AI overviews? If you have a website that relies on getting traffic because you've published information which is pretty much every website, you probably have seen a decrease in clicks from Google and this is normal. This is not because your SEO team's doing anything wrong. It's just the way that things are and search is

dramatically changing. Google says as we upgrade search to meet these changing expectations, this transformation offers new opportunities to reach people who might be more inclined to engage with your site, spend time with your content or even convert to becoming a subscriber or making a purchase. This is really important. We have to think about what the purpose of search is now. For a lot of websites, search was this opportunity to put together the world's information and if you organized it well, you could capture leads from that and now more and

more just organizing information is not enough to be a successful website. So Google talks about two things that are important in terms of AI search and yes, the best practices for SEO. This link here goes to Google's guide on developers guide for the essentials for SEO. If you haven't read it, I would say it's really mandatory reading for anybody who is trying to rank well or trying to be seen on Google search. And then they talk about two things that are specific to AI search. One of them

is rag, retrieval augmented generation. And this is where AI is using your websites, using the information on the web to ground its answers. And then the next thing to know about about is the query fan out. The query fan out is I I got to last year at Google I/O, I got to talk with one of the engineers who worked on AI mode. And she told me about this query fan out that they use a specialized model of Gemini. It's not the same as what you and I can use. And

that model makes a list of concurrent questions that people might ask. And so Google says, you know, if the original user's query is how to fix a lawn that's full of weeds, the fan out queries might include best herbicides for lawns, remove weeds without chemicals, how to prevent weeds in lawn. Now, what I've seen is a lot of people are trying to estimate the fan out and then creating pieces of content that specifically answer the needs of each of those questions. I don't know that this is

necessarily a good way to go. I think that the problem with this is that we are often creating large amounts of commodity content. We're going to talk about commodity content in a minute. Um, and so if you're trying to pay attention to the query fan out, I would strongly encourage you to only create these articles if you can bring a unique viewpoint or something that we're going to talk about in a minute, the things that Google says makes content worthwhile and worthy of ranking. If you

haven't seen this yet, Bing produced this or Microsoft produced this blog post just recently where it talks about how the role of the index is changing. And this I think, really goes well with what Google just published. They tell us how the purpose of the index has changed, and that traditional indexing answers a simple question, "Which pages should a user visit?" The index, whether it's Microsoft index or Google's index, used to be to say, "We have this whole list of pages, which one is the user

likely to find helpful?" And and that still does happen to some extent. I mean, there are some searches where you clearly want to find a particular website, or you want to land on a business's website. But now the the role of search has changed to having a goal of grounding AI answers. And this really is the change that I think Google is talking about, as well. People are going to be talking about this thing right here. What is AEO, GEO, LMNOP? I I I I jokingly said that we should

call it language model AI optimization, so it can be LMAO. Honestly, it's just SEO. Now, we could argue about this. I think that when we switch to a world where businesses are using agents, we're going to have a whole new skill set, and we're going to have to have a different acronym. I personally just stick with what is SEO. I think SEO is the description of what we do. We might not always be optimizing for search engines, we might be optimizing to look good to AI agents,

but ultimately, what we're trying to do is make our businesses attractive to either the people who want to use them, or to their agents who want to use them to get things done. Google gives us a bunch of things that they say are best practices for SEO, and these really have not changed. But I think it's important that Google is drawing our attention to them because historically some of the things that we've done for SEO do not work so well in this new landscape where the index is

primarily being used to ground AI answers. They talk repeatedly about creating non-commodity content for your audience. I was at the Google Search Central event in Toronto recently and Danny Sullivan put up a graphic where he showed examples of commodity content versus non-commodity content and they actually give an example here where they say uh if you were writing seven tips for first-time home buyers, this is the type of general information that exists all over the web. It's not something that people are specifically going to be seeking out. So, what is non-commodity

content? Well, they say providing a unique point of view. Now, maybe me reviewing this blog post, I mean, I'm just giving you information that already exists on the web, but what makes this valuable, at least I hope it is, is my opinion, is my insight based on the client work that I've done. And so, uh Google says, "Our AI systems take a look at a variety of sources, so it can be helpful to have a unique viewpoint that stands out." I've noticed this that sometimes when you do a search, the

results will be like, "Here's one that looks at this viewpoint. Here's one that's geared towards businesses. Here's one that's geared towards individuals." And if you can have a unique viewpoint, then it kind of gives you uh credence to be quoted by the AI answer. Google says, "Create the content yourself based on what you know about the topic and consider what in-depth experience you can bring to your content. Don't just recycle what others on the internet have already said or could be easily produced by a generative

AI model. This is a change because a lot of the content that is written for websites is written by SEOs. Now, I've been preaching about this for many years that if an SEO can easily write the content for you, then there's a good chance that it's commodity content. What Google needs now, what Google wants to reward now, is content that comes from your experience. It was 2022 that Google introduced the new E in E-E-A-T. That stands for experience because this is something that AI can't replicate. So, this doesn't just mean

adding first person like I went to this event, you know, I said, "Oh, I I was at the Google Search Central event in Toronto." I mean, that can help, but really it's what you what you get from that experience that you can give to people that really makes the difference. Google refers us to this documentation on helpful, reliable people first content, which is something that I've gone over many times. I wrote a book about this, and it's not that this is a checklist that Google goes through. These are the

types of things that people find helpful. Whether you have original information, reporting, research, or research, or analysis. One thing I can highly recommend you doing is going to your recent content and opening up Gemini in the Chrome sidebar and asking Gemini, "Is this content original? Does it have original reporting, research, or analysis?" Another thing you can ask Gemini is, "Is this likely to be commodity content?" And if it's not, I mean, it's fine to have the odd post, the odd page on your website that is not

original, especially if that's what your readers expect from you, but it's not a strategy for search. This is what Danny Sullivan said at the Google Search Central event. I'm not going to go through all these questions, but if you have not read them, I would recommend it because a lot of uh what people are creating for the web is essentially scaled content for the purpose of trying to manipulate rankings, which is against Google's guidelines. I thought this was interesting, too, where it says organizing content in a way that helps

your readers. And they talk later in the document about how we don't need to necessarily be chunking content. Chunking is something that it makes sense if you understand how language models work. They're trying to find specific chunks of uh content that they can spit back out and that they can uh use to help form their answers. But really, if you have uh exact words that a language model can take out, it's not the type of thing that is original, unique, experiential that Google wants to reward. They do recommend adding

high-quality images and video. This is one of the reasons why I'm doing this video today rather than just writing a blog post with some screenshots, is that people like video. I saw recently that uh Google made a change on Google TVs now that when you open up your TV, there are shorts on the main screen, on the home screen of your TV. Uh Google really, really is promoting video because this is something that at this point AI can't easily replicate. They talk uh again about Google's scaled

content abuse spam policy. I think we're going to see more of this at the Google Search Central event. Danny Sullivan mentioned scaled content multiple times. Uh and it is really commonly done. The last few site reviews that I've done, I've noted that if you look at the last few blog posts that these sites have written, it's content that is clearly just written on a large scale for uh that that is not unique. That it could basically if if Here's a a good question to ask yourself. If you removed your

content from the web, would anybody miss it? And if that's the case, then you're probably not producing high-quality content. Google does also tell us that it's fine to use AI to help with your content creation. Um but you still need to make sure that uh you're following their guidelines and especially their spam policies, uh that you're not breaking anything in the spam policy. Google has a really good document on AI-generated content and they essentially say in that document that it is fine to use AI to help with your

content creation uh as long as it's high-quality. And your definition of high-quality might be different than the next person's, but really what you're looking at is will people find it useful? Will people find it helpful? There's more here that I'm not going to read every word of. They're just basically saying, you know, have a technically sound site, follow crawling best practices. Um one thing about technical SEO is that I think it's less and less important. I think what I look at is can Google actually retrieve the content on your

site? If there's something obviously that's blocking them from indexing the content, from seeing the content, from crawling it, from rendering the content, then that's an issue that you need to fix. If you have core web vitals that are slightly slow, even in the medium range, probably this is not something you need to work on. I think the exception is e-commerce sites. There have been studies done that show that every millisecond that you can speed up your site actually uh works towards improving conversions. So that's something that I would recommend. But

for the vast majority of sites, if you are not doing well, it's probably not a technical issue. It's more likely because there are other pages on the web that do better. And this is where our opportunity is, that if you can truly reach into your experience and produce things that nobody else can, then you have lots of opportunity to to rank and to be seen on search. They do mention the business agent here. If you have Merchant Center, I would strongly encourage you to look at the section that talks about

your business agent. I checked it out for one client. For one of my clients, briefly, we had a button that said test your agent, and we clicked the button and we got search results that had the brand in it and a little button that said chat with the business agent. It was really, really interesting. It was very accurate. Everything that it pulled from was directly from their site. We didn't find anything that was wrong with it, and I think that this is how search

is going to be for most businesses. Not that your website will be completely unnecessary, but your website will serve as grounding, as accurate information to the AI assistants that are conversing with the user. These are very interesting some myth-busting year. Google talks about the fact that we don't need LLMs.txt. We don't need markdown files for our sites to appear in search. The reason why this is a little bit confusing is because Google themselves produced markdown versions of all of their developer documentation, and so I

saw a number of people that were saying, "Well, if Google's doing it, you know, we should probably do that as well." I think that that markdown was for people who wanted to take the documentation and give it to their AI agents. I don't think that it helps you in search. I don't think it makes sense to have multiple versions of a site. The language models are really good at reading text on a page and determining if that text is something that users are going to find helpful. So, an LLMs.txt

file is not something that you need at this point. Now, it's interesting because Shopify, I believe, is producing llms.txt for all of their sites. I don't think that's research. I think it's for the Shopify agent that goes in can modify the site and do things on the site. I'm not sure about that, but probably unless you have a specific reason to produce llms.txt, it's not something that I would recommend at this point. We've talked about chunking content. There's no requirement to break your content into

tiny pieces for AI to better understand it. I think maybe in the early days of ChatGPT surfacing content from websites, it actually really helped to have particular sentences that answered a query. And Google is really, really good now at and if you think about it, if I gave a piece of content to Gemini, to ChatGPT, to Claude, to whoever, and I said, "Pull out the bit that answers my question." It's not necessarily going to pull out the exact answer to my question. Like it's language models are

really good at finding the nuance nuance in in language now. Um this I don't really know what they're referring to here. Seeking inauthentic mentions. I think they're talking about link building here, but I'm not exactly sure. Just like the rest of Google search, our generative AI features can show what's being said about products and services across the web, including in blogs, videos, and forum discussions. However, seeking inauthentic mentions across the web isn't as helpful as it might seem. This might be about links. It might be about listicles. I've

noticed that now if you do a search for who are the I'll do a vanity search for who are the best SEO consultants. And sometimes I'm on that list, but if for a while that list was the people who were trying to manipulate by creating lists and putting themselves at the at the top. And so I think if you're creating content to try to make it look like people are speaking well of you, but really you're just making that content. That's something that probably goes against Google spam guidelines. I don't

know if you know, but every single site in Google's index has a spam score. You cannot see the spam score, but it's something that their system see. And if you have a high spam score, it's going to you know, make it more difficult for you to rank. I personally think, now I have said this with every Google update for over a decade now, that with each update, I think Google gets better at figuring out which signals to to consider when they're deciding when they're trying to predict which pages

are best for searchers. And in the early days of search, the most important signal was PageRank, which is the equity that passed through links. And you know, so we learned as SEOs that if we can build links, we can have sites that Google thinks are being recommended by people. In almost every single core update. Now, Google will say that core updates are not about penalizing sites for link building methods or for spam even, but with every single core update, the sites that come to me saying that

we've suffered a drop are almost always sites where you can look at the link profile and you could say, "Yeah, these guys were building links for the purpose of SEO." The question is whether they're being penalized. I don't think they are. I think that some of those links that maybe were helping in the past just get less and less helpful. And it gets really difficult to know what to do with these sites because we don't know you do I don't really think that disavowing those links will help. It's not like

that you're going to recover the the benefit that you once had, but I strongly recommend that you don't try to manipulate, you don't try to make your own ways of showing Google that other people are enjoying your site and and recommending it. And then the last bit was over focusing on structured data. Recently Google deprecated the FAQ rich results. Mind you, they they deprecated those a while back that were just government sites and a couple of well-authoritative sites that were seeing rich results for FAQ. A number of people though are

really putting a lot of emphasis in FAQ schema. And I know some very smart people who I really believe that they have had good success with schema. But I yet to see a study that strongly shows me beyond e-commerce that schema really makes a difference. All of the studies that I looked at that showed that when we implemented FAQ schema, we did well, they also implemented strong question and answer pairs, meaning that they did well at answering a customer's question or a reader's question. Recently Ahrefs published a

study where they implemented schema across a large number of pages that were already in AI overviews and saw no difference in the ranking for those. Now, some people could say, "Well, maybe the schema could help you get into AI overviews." I don't think that schema makes a big difference. I do think that there is purpose for some types of structured data, especially if you're e-commerce. If you have prices that are changing rapidly, AI agents are going to want to see the most accurate information you

can feed to them through schema. But when it comes to information and most of what's on the web, the they have been working for a couple of decades now in understanding unstructured data. And so I think that I personally don't spend a lot of time on schema. And then this is the part that I'm most excited about, but also there's so much that we don't know. Explore agentic experiences. When I was at the Google Search Central event, they had a time for questions. and I asked the question, "How much

attention should we be paying to Web MCP?" And they did not answer my question. So, then I went and asked in person, and the answer was, "Don't." And that didn't make sense to me because I really think that Web MCP Web MCP is a way that agents can use tools on your website that can actually interface with the functionality of your website. I think it's going to be important. I think the reason why they said, "Don't." So, what they said to me was, "Just

focus on the things that we've told you, and Google has told us about UCP, Universal Commerce Protocol." If you're not familiar with that, I did a video a couple months ago about UCP, uh and had a really great interview with Andrea Lee about UCP as well. Um and and we should focus on that. And then, um the other thing is the business agent, which is is coming out soon, and you should check for that in your Merchant Center. I think that the reason why they

said, "Don't focus on it." is because Web MCP is still developing. And right now, I have one client that we had a big conversation about how they could use Web MCP on their website. They went and implemented it, and it's so clunky. In order for another agent to use it, you have to actually like give the agent instructions, give it like an API token, and all these different things, and it just was not working well. However, 6 days after Google told me, "Don't pay attention to Web MCP."

Google published a blog post on creating agent-friendly sites. This blog post tells us three things about how agents will view your site. They can look at screenshots of the site. They can look at the HTML of your site. And then, this is the most fascinating thing, the accessibility tree. The accessibility tree is basically it breaks the site down into what's important for agents. It knows what buttons are are what things could be clicked on, and what things can be interacted with. And so it's really important for us to start

preparing for this. So I made a little tool. I used anti-gravity to make this tool where you can put in your website and it will help you understand where you're lacking. Some of the things that it looks for I basically took everything that was in Google's blog post, things like are your buttons too small? That's one example. And it spits out a bunch of advice on improving and then also a big long prompt that you can give to your language model to help you understand

can you improve these easily and is it worthwhile to do so? So I think that when it comes to agentic experiences, we are in for a ride. Google I/O is happening next week. Maybe by the time you see this video, it's already happened. They have mentioned that they're going to talk about changes to search and that they're going to talk about the switch to an agentic search. Switch is my word. They didn't say they were going to talk about the switch, but they're going to talk about changes that

are happening. So there are some agents that are already live in search. Some of them can book things for you or compare products. There is a voice agent that I haven't seen it in action personally, but you can ask it to like let's say you want an oil change and it will call all of the garages in your area and get quotes from them and then put a document together for you. So search is becoming this place where agents will do things for

us. And I think that most of us will have to rethink the purpose of our website. My newsletter, my last newsletter, mariehaines.com/newsletter, I put a prompt in there that you can use to brainstorm with your language model about how your business can function in an agentic web and what opportunities you have there. And then if you are uh eCom, the universal commerce protocol, Google said in their earnings call that this was a major focus for them in 2025 was developing UCP. It's going to be a

big deal. It's going to let people buy things directly from the search results. So, the rest of this is just sort of summarizing what Google has said. Really good SEO practice is what you need right now. The problem is that there is not a lot of information on the web about what good SEO practice is. If you read Google's guidelines, which is what I like to do, there's a lot of good information there. But historically, there have been other things that can help you manipulate, can help you get

ahead even though you're not following Google's guidelines. And more and more we're seeing that change. So, I hope you found this helpful. If you're not already subscribed to my newsletter, mariehaynes.com/newsletter, I am now updating every couple of weeks with the things I'm discussing with my clients. If you want to become a client, reach out to me at mariehaynes.com/contact. Contact. I have room for a couple of more and then we are buckling in for this new era of agentic search. Hope you found this

helpful and I wish you the best of luck with everything.
