# How to Win Visibility in AI Search:  The AI Search Manual Walkthrough

- Video title: How to Win Visibility in AI Search:  The AI Search Manual Walkthrough
- Channel name: iPullRank
- URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ukpU-EfRtV4
- Publish date: 2025-09-25

## Transcript

people. What is up? Hello. Thank you for your patience. You are in for a treat because we've got the definitive AI search manual guide and we got none other than Mr. Mike King himself to walk you through it. How's everyone doing today? Uh looks like we have very much an international uh audience. Mike, you you see any any faces you recognize? We got I see Francine on our team uh is in there. Hey everybody. My do do people know who you are? I guess you'll introduce yourself, but um

I won't. So, my name is Garrett Susman, marketing director of Vipo Rank. Mike, you want to you want to take it away? >> Uh, sure. Yeah, I'm Mike King. Um, I'm here to make some of you guys mad today, just so you know. And that doesn't bother me because that's where we are in this journey that we're sharing in this uh SEO community. So without further ado, let's get into it. All right, so we are IPO rank, literally the best SEO agency and really the only relevance engineering agency in

the multiverse. And um you know before we get into this, I do want to say a couple things because there's been a lot going on in my life that's been really interesting. So for anyone that wasn't here, um we threw our first conference called SEO week. We had 40 of the best uh speakers in the space and we also had a gentleman by the name of Buster Rhymes that performed at our afterparty. And you know who else performed? Me. Um you know, for those of you that don't

know, I used to make music for a living. I cut my hair because I couldn't beat those allegations that I was Will Reynolds and he's grown his hair out. So, you know, I've got to got to do something to differentiate myself. So, anyway, at uh SEO week, I realized that I didn't want to have to win over crowds anymore. And so, what I realized is like I got to make a hit record so people just show up knowing that I'm great. So, I went and worked with a guy named Scott

Storch. For anyone that doesn't know who that is, he's the producer behind hits from like Beyonce and Justin Timberlake and so on. And Scott Storch had very humble beginnings. He is from Philadelphia like I am. He used to be a member of the roots. He quickly switched into making music for bigger people and scored a hundred million dollar fortune and you know was at the top of the A-list in the early 2000s. He also famously lost everything. But I went to his house and you know he's clearly got

some things back. He lives on like really high in the in the building. He's got his cars parked in his living room. It's one of the craziest things I've ever seen. But what was fascinating about that experience is that I was around a whole bunch of people that like just believe they could do anything. And they did. And I kept just being like, "Hey, I'm thinking of doing this." And they were like, "Oh, you should do that." And it just made me realize

that we're in this space. I mean, I I always generally feel like I can do anything. And that's not really reflected back to me by many people in my life. But it was this infin this really interesting experience where I just realized like yo we can all do anything especially as it relates to AI. Like there's so much cool stuff we can be doing and making and we as SEOs really have this opportunity to do bigger things. And you know, I'm giving this to you in the context of my music

career, but if you need it in a business context, go read the book, The Magic of Thinking Big. It's the same sort of idea, right? So, with that said, let's get into it. SEO is deprecated. That's how I feel. And again, that's going to piss off a lot of people that are here and that are not here, but I actually don't care. So, you know, we all know that AI overviews are causing traffic losses. And this is a report that I pulled from Wikipedia a number of months

ago because their analytics data is uh public. And so when chat chat GBT first came out, you would have assumed that Wikipedia would have lost a ton of traffic. As you can see here, that's not necessarily true because um this blue line represents when chatbt rolled out. But you see that the traffic trend to Wikipedia actually increased which probably a function of the fact that a lot of people just know that there's hallucinations and they were looking to verify the information. But this red line represents when AI

overviews rolled out and you'll notice that that trend started to drop significantly. So we've all seen the studies that show that AI overviews are reus reducing CTR by 34.5%. And I love to say I told you so because I predicted this two years ago in an article that I wrote for uh search engine land where we modeled out what the impact from AI overviews would be and it was between 20 and 60% that we expected to see for you know most sites and that's what we're seeing right now.

And in fact a lot of the things that I talk about in that blog post are exactly what we need to be doing now. and I'm just going to continue to reinforce the things that I've been saying for two years. Um, also, you know, we we or I definitely complained I know a lot of us complained to Google about them not giving us any real information of what this impact was going to be and we all saw that, you know, traffic uh has been dropping, clicks have been dropping and

we've also been seeing things like, you know, conversions going up in a lot of spaces and so after that complaint when we were in Mountain View at Google IO, they did make an update to the documentation to say like, hey, measure your your your uh traffic beyond just visits and so on. So, I don't know if you guys should thank me or be mad at me, but you know, choose your own adventure. So, yes, we're all generally seeing a trend that looks a lot like

this where we're seeing uh less traffic but more qualified because there's more conversions happening. We're seeing when AI overviews are showing up that the traffic is going down. But at the same time, SEO is kind of having this blockbuster moment. And what I mean by that is, you know, back in the day, back in 2000, uh, Blockbuster had the opportunity to purchase Netflix for 50 million. They got laughed out of the boardroom. Now Blockbuster no longer exists and Netflix is worth 200 million.

So SEO is doing that same sort of thing where they're just trying to be like, "No, nothing is changing. It's all just SEO and what have you." Right? But the reality is that traditional search is melting down. Because back in the day, or not even back in the day, a year ago, um, if you got more rankings, that meant you got more revenue. If you got more content out there, that means you ranked for more keywords, which meant you got more revenue. You made more pages, you

got more traffic. But that relationship is no longer a onetoone or even a one to many. At this point, it's like you can do more and you might get traffic, but you don't necessarily know. And we know that across everything that we're seeing, clicks are declining. Like you see the data from the various sources, whether it's Datos or Similar Web, they're all effectively saying the same thing. Clicks are going down. But what we're also seeing is that the traffic from large language models or from AI

search is becoming more valuable. But we're seeing more conversion activity coming from them as well. But big picture, people are still having this argument about like what we call it. Frankly, it's GEO. That's what the market decided because SEO could not get it get itself together and figure out like what we wanted to call it. We had the opportunity to say to the space like, "Hey, here's what this is." And we spent the last year just infighting and being like, "No, it's AEO. No, it's GEO.

No, it's all just SEO." But then you have the market deciding like, hey, it's GEO. You have people like Andre and Harowitz writing articles about it. You've got, you know, the the journalists that are starting to pick it up and talk about it using that term. So, we missed that moment. We no longer get to decide what it's called. It is called GEO. Let's move on. What we do at IPO rank though is relevance engineering. That's going to sit above any search channel. It doesn't matter

which channel it is. We operate doing relevance engineering which is the confluence of AI, content strategy, digital PR, UX and information retrieval. And I want to be clear that I'm not saying it's SEO. I'm saying it's information retrieval because um you know we have a very deep understanding of how things actually work. And if you do SEO like you're just really a power user of Google, right? like you know things like advanced search operators, you know reax, you know how to you know write ht access um rules or whatever you

don't necessarily know how a search engine actually works. And so I really believe at this stage you really need to understand that because things are moving so quickly. And to that end I also believe that SEOs need to evolve right like there's a lot more that we need to understand as a community. Whereas historically it's been like oh yeah I've got intuition I think it works this way so we're going to do things this way. I think at this point we really need to rely more on statistical

rigor and um leveraging as many data points as we can get our hands on and figuring out like what actually yields success. So you know one of the key distinctions between how we do things and what SEO historically is is that SEO is very much like a checklist culture, right? like you have an audit checklist and you're like, "Oh yeah, we look at these 30 things and you know your page titles are over 60 characters that must be wrong." But the reality is that, you

know, even with the page title thing, following that best practice doesn't necessarily do much for you. You've got to really be testing beyond things, doing lots of experiments, and you know, leveraging um an understanding of how things technically work to figure out what those hypotheses need to be. And as a result, we're seeing a lot of like new roles start to emerge. You know, at IPO rank, we've always had a role that we call the SEO engineer that is very much the middle ground between like being an

actual developer and being a really strong technical SEO. Uh we've also had content engineering be a focus for a number of years as well, and we're starting to see more and more people hiring roles that are similar. So for generative AI, I mean just the reality is that we're going to need to upskill and continue to upskill because there's more and more things that just keep emerging. There's more and more ways that this content is being considered and sliced up and used and so

on and so forth. Now, let's talk about the state of AI search and why we're actually here. The reality is that users never actually wanted 10 blue links. They always wanted the Star Trek computer. They wanted the ability to, you know, talk to a computer and get it to do a thing or give them an answer and what have you. And this has been codified recently over the last like few years in a paper by Andre um uh Broer who's the guy who came up with the uh navigationalformational transactional

taxonomy for search and he wrote a paper called the delicate costs of web search and he talks about the idea of there being access costs, cognitive costs and time costs that are just way too high. So ultimately they are trying to do things that align with what users actually want. And there's a quote from uh Markhamm uh Ericson VP of Google from an article in the Verge about a week or so ago. He said user preferences and what users want is also changing. So instead of factual answers and 10 blue

links, they're increasingly wanting contextual answers and summaries. And it's so funny that he said people don't want factual answers. But um in any event, they are going more in this direction, which also means that the search journeys are going to be messier than ever. It's not going to be as linear as we thought, although that's been true for a while, but it's going to get even worse because people can have these more conversational user journeys. And there's going to be a lot less like pogo sticking as well. Uh

funny like, "Oh no, Christopher, not funny like haha." uh less pogo sticking as well because you know users don't have to do multiple clicks and like synthesize information in their head because think about it right like you clicked like let's say one to three results on any given um SER and then you're like cool well I understand this component it didn't really understand what I my information need was so I've got to like you know generate another one and then they effectively do this across a series of

queries and then synthesize the information in their head. But you may land on a article and you're like, "Ah, this isn't what I want." So you bounce back. But now what Google is doing is effectively giving you all that information in one shot. And the only reason that people are um you know doing this like when they click through and not the only reason, but one of the main reasons that people click through is to kind of like verify the information. And that's part of why they

are doing so much in the um citation world because they found in this study that people trust it more when they're citations even if they don't click through. But data is continuing to indicate that less people are clicking through. You know, we're seeing that um in the jump shot data less than 50% of users are actually clicking. That's going up even more for news sites. I mean, I'm I feel really bad for any publishers. like I don't really have a good answer for you for what to do aside

from like hey do more for Google discover because it as it relates to classic organic search you're just not going to get many clicks at this point but what we're also seeing and this is a study that came from the Pew Research Center is that you know only about 1% of users are clicking links in the AIO's of course Google refuted this study because it's in their best um interest to do so but we know like there are very few clicks coming from these And so we're also ultimately relearning

how to search as users, right? Like you know it's it's far less about that Orwellian newspeak where it's like okay how do I condense what my information need is into like five words or what have you. Users are realizing like the more specific uh the information is in their query the more specific the response will be. But we're also seeing that the user queries are not evolving anywhere near as fast as what we're seeing in, you know, a chatbt, right? Like we're still seeing much shorter queries going into Google

than they are into the other surfaces. Um, more and more data is coming out to showcase that the the quality of clicks from AI search has increased dramatically. it was just a year ago far smaller in the conversion that it drove uh than what you're seeing from classic search. But again, we're seeing more and more high quality uh visits coming from these channels even though it's nowhere near the volume of visits. We're also seeing that 52% of users are using LLMs, about 34% once a day. We've seen that a

AIO's have grown dramatically, especially if we look back to March. um the great decoupling. We're seeing that change even even in the last couple weeks as well and I'll talk about that with the numbum equals 100 parameter thing. Uh but we're also seeing that you know the referral traffic is dramatically lower from these channels than what we're seeing from classic organic search. So even if we look at AI mode versus Google search and despite that we're seeing that there's growth in referral traffic from the other channels. things like chatbt and

perplexity and so on. But end of the day, Google is still the most dominant force here. And I believe that ultimately Google will win this war between the chatbts of the world for a a very specific series of reasons. one, Google has that proprietary data advantage, and I know that they may be losing that to some degree with the um the remedies that have come out of their uh DOJ antitrust trial, but I'm sure that'll be an appeal for a number of years. And by the time that Google has

to give it up, the way that they define it internally may be so different that the data that they give to these third parties may not even be that uh valuable. And then Google also has their own chips. So they don't have to, you know, wait on uh Nvidia to ship them things. They're not really beholden to that. They can just make whatever chips that they want and make them very specific to their needs. And then, you know, they have multiple billion user products. So the feedback and also their

ability to rapidly deploy things is going to give them learnings much faster and more validated learnings than anyone else is going to get. So effectively they can sit around and just watch uh chat or open AAI do whatever it is that they do and then take those features and then add them to Gemini. And so the inertia of everyone using Gmail and Docs and so on is just going to natively have them using these products. So I think long term they're going to be the

winners. But there's also a lot of studies that showcase that the slop is growing very fa fast as a function of all this AI stuff as well. There's a study from Stanford about how when they looked at 300 million documents, so many of them were just LLM generated. And we're seeing that, you know, uh AI generated content is 16.5 of the results in the SERs at this point. And this from a study from originality J AI, but we're also seeing studies indicate that AI usage doesn't um impact rankings

negatively. And I've said this for a number of years as well that Google cannot reliably look at whether or not something was AI gener generated as a single signal to determine whether or not it should rank or it should not rank. If anything, they've got to use a combination of signals. And one of the signals that is very clear from AI content, especially when it's bad, is that it has a high bounce rate. And so if they use that and a series of other signals that they use

and then also look at it in terms of uh whether or not they believe it's generated content, then that can be the signals that they can use. But just because it's using AI search does not or excuse me is AI generated content does not mean that's inherently not going to rank as well. But another big problem, and I've also been saying this for a while, is that uh OpenAI attacks Google on two fronts. One, it's effectively a giant GGC campaign that can pollute Google's index. And two, it's also just

a new modality of how people are getting their information needs met. So, we're seeing that over time, the index is going to be polluted. And so, Google has had to counteract that by indexing things a lot less. And that's why we've been seeing things are harder to get indexed when it's like a page type that is very similar and doesn't really have value. There's predictions that 90% of online content is going to be AI generated by 2026. So again, Google is going to have

to continue to be smarter in how they determine what they index. And then there was our AI heist or the SEO heist that uh Jake Ward pulled off temporarily where people were or he was out there just bragging about how much traffic he was able to get just by using generated content. So of course Google is continue is going to have to continue to figure out what to do here. But you know it's not just a function of whether or not it's AI generated. And then another big

problem is hallucination. It's still not a solved problem. We're seeing that uh GPT5 has a 1.4% 4% hallucination rate based on this study that was run. Uh Gemini 2.5 Pro has a 1.1% hallucination rate whereas Gemini 2.0 Flash um has a 7. So it's not a soft problem even with the grounded text and it's definitely something that um is going to continue to need to be worked on. And I know there was that study that came out of Open AI a couple weeks ago where they

realized like it's a function of the need for the solution to have an answer or the AI the language model to have an answer. But other studies just continue to indicate that there's a huge mis misinformation problem here. This study showed that AI search is wrong 60% of the time. We've seen that chatbt has hallucinated new features for a company called Sound Slice and Sound Slice kept getting users expecting that um it would work a certain way and so as a result they built the features that Chat GBT

said it was going to have but again more and more studies are coming out saying that they're hallucinations everywhere and we're also just you know there's just a reality that search is still an unsolved problem so Google's going to continue to have to work through like how do we meet these complex user needs? Uh there's still going to be these information gaps that are persisting even though we have the web scale of information that we can leverage. And so you can expect that Google is going to continue to want to

integrate with more third parties whether it's through A2A or MCP or what have you and and search is going to continue to profoundly change. So, it's really disheartening to watch the SEO industry be like, "No, nothing has changed. You just keep doing what you already do." I think right now is the moment that we need to reconsider everything we're doing and figure out where the gaps are so that we can actually move forward and do things that are of value. So, let's talk about how

AI search works. I know I've put a lot of information out there on it. Uh, it's a lot to read, so I'm happy to just break it down over the next 10 minutes. So the headline is that AI search is a shift from deterministic to probabilistic rankings. And to some degree, search has always been or has been probabilistic ever since personalization has come into play. But it's reasonably stable, right? Like unless there are queries where uh there's breaking news, things don't change too much between each load of the

SER. With um AI search, there can be instances where you get a different answer, right? Like you can run a SER multiple times and they may not cache the AI overview. You may get a different response. And so what I mean by deterministic versus probabilistic is the content doesn't come out the same way that it goes in. It gets interpreted. It gets reasoned on every time that the uh response is generated. So the core pattern behind that is retrieve augmented generation. And that's effectively when you're combining

a large language model with a search engine. And what happens is they encode your query in into um a vector representation and then they're doing vector search to figure out a series of candidates and then they re rank those and then they're effectively grounding the response in those um passages and then they're generating that response. So when we talk about the historical version of search, how it's known, when we talk about things like TF or BM25, those are representations of what's called lexical search. And so in that

instance, you're taking the user's query, you're breaking it down to a series of tokens called engrams. So if a a a query is five words long, it can be broken into, you know, a four gram, um you know, a series of one grams, two gram, and a three gram. And you're retrieving what are called posting posting lists based on all those uh you know engrams and then you intersect the list of documents and you rank them based on um TF basically and you know of course Google introduced things like

page rank and so on um and they're all different like measures that are added to that score to ultimately generate that list of ranking documents. So semantic search is more about using AI to understand meetings. So you're effectively taking the documents plotting them in multi-dimensional space based on uh these higher dimensional uh embeddings and then the embeddings that are of the documents that are closest to um the query embeddings in multi-dimensional space are considered the ones that are most relevant. So hybrid retrieval is when you combine

both when because there there are situations where the lexical performs better because it identifies those words and their incidence rates uh better than you know the embedding search because you know you may have some difficulty in understanding the the relationship between the the query representation and the document representation. more often than not you end up finding through like synonyomy and so on uh documents that otherwise wouldn't have ranked in there. So what you're doing is you're combining it from both sides. You're reranking it and then doing the grounding based on

that. So what Google introduced was the transformer which really allowed us to better understand context and uh where early versions of vector embeddings like wordtovec didn't really have the uh context. So if you use the word bank in different context, you didn't really understand the difference that's there. And so where Google has continued to evolve is that they have vector representations of everything. They have vector representations of authors, websites, entities, users, and so they can plot all that in the same multi-dimensional space to get an understanding of those

relationships. So content of all formats can go in that same embedding space and they can rank videos and audio and documents all together effectively. What Google has introduced more recently is what's called personal context where they have vector representations of everything that the users do in the Google ecosystem. So they can learn from pages you look at, they can learn from your Gmail, they can learn from what you've purchased, and then they can use that as a filtering mechanism for what content that they ultimately show you.

Now, historically, all this has been discussed as like single vector representations. What they've been moving into over the last year is something called move vera where they have multiple vectors that represent things and they can effectively um have higher f fidelity of that representation. So when we talk about AI overviews, the way they work, there's a number of ways that they're uh laid out in the different patents, but one of the ways that they work is they effectively generate the answer and then they look for documents that can corroborate what

they've said in that answer and then they ultimately um you know are returning that response based on um all the passages that they found in the query fan out stage. So with AI mode that works a bit different in that, you know, it's basically a longer pipeline of of the same sort of idea, but there's more reasoning stages that go into that as well. But the whole idea is that there are more passages and more pages that are considered uh for more queries as well. And so when you're looking at

these um you know the differences between the two, it really comes down to uh how much content is being considered based on how many queries are being considered. And so when you think about the query fan out, let's say the example here is the best half marathon training plan. That's going to be broken down into a bunch of different synthetic queries that represent both implicit and ex explicit needs that the user has and also related queries and so on. And then we also map um those to or route those

to different uh types of content based on what that query might be looking for. Now, the thing that you have the most control over is trying to rank for as many of these synthetic queries as possible. And then you kind of lose control because they all those passages then go through a series of these reasoning chains to determine what they ultimately want to use to then generate that response. Um, so you know, the way that that this content is ultimately discovered isn't just from crawling. It

can be from crawling, you know, for most of these systems, not um uh Google or or Bing systems, but from a chat GBT or Perplexity, they all request those pages in real time. And um so it's really important to monitor that because the pages that get requested the most are the ones that you can consider for uh kind of I want to say manipulating but like impacting the uh responses for these different AI channels. And then there's also the AI or API uh based access where

you have like these structured feeds or these license feeds. That's when people are doing these direct deals with um you know these different channels. And so when they generate these responses again they're expanding the query. They're then routing it to different uh content types. They're retrieving the content. Then they're selecting what content they want to use. They send it for synthesis and then they generate that response. So the query prompt is where everything starts. And you know historically on the lexical side it's like cool we've got

the query let's look for the documents and you know there may be some small expansion of keywords across the topic cluster but in this case there's a lot more subqueries and there's a lot more sources that it's pulling from as well and so when they expand the queries then it goes through this process of identify the intent for the queries um the slot identification the latent intent prod projection where they're going to compare it to other queries in multi-dimensional space then they rewrite these uh queries and diversify

them and then there may be also speculative uh sub questions that actually happen as well. So they break the query down to a series of needs uh for different information domains not domains like you know subdomain for a website but uh information domains. So like what is the category for the subject matter and then what are the subcategories and then what are the types of tasks that the user might be doing based on these different queries and then there's also risk and safety profiling that they uh use as filtering

as well. Excuse me. Um so for slide identification there may be different information requirements that they have. So there may be explicit ones that are said directly in the query and then there may be some that are inferred from the queries that are being used as well. And then there's latent intent projection where they just say cool let me take these queries let me put them in multi-dimensional space what are close matches semantically as well that we also want to use as part of this. And

then they may rewrite the queries and further diversify them based on what they're seeing other people use in uh other queries that they're doing because there's a whole like you know matrix of query representations that Google has from the um different searches that users are doing and then they're using that to say like okay well this one's related let's make sure that we also include that too. And then there's speculative sub questions like what else that the user might be asking based on what their question their initial

question is. So if we're going back to best half half marathon training plan for beginners, one of the questions might be, you know, what should my nutrition be like or how long does it take to train or what are common training mistakes? And then they route all these individual queries to the type of content that they might want. So it might be like a gear checklist or a training plan. That could be a e-commerce site or it could be a coaching blog or um you know a stretch

routine might be a video. So there's very clear expectations for what they're looking for based on what they think makes the most sense for that query. So then they map it to these individual sources and then from there they have like a retrieval strategy because if it's something requires them to ping an API that costs more than just running you know a lexical um BM25 um analysis to pull the content. So they're thinking very very uh smartly because you know they're doing this at web scale. There

may be billions of queries that they have to do this for. So, as an example, if we're looking at like a finance term and the query is best high yield savings account for 2025, that's one where they might want to hit a financial data API or they might want to, you know, look at some bank product pages or what have you. But that routing is where you get a better understanding of what you can do because if you don't have content that fulfills um you know the expectation for one of

these sub queries then that's not going to be an opportunity where you're likely going to rank in an AI overview. And so at that point they want to select um the content based on that synthesis based on like what is going to fit into a large language model response uh very easily. And so what they're measuring for is extractability. Like can they easily select this chunk from this content and then use that that information as part of a response. And so and I'm hesitant to use density

because I know the history of the word keyword density in our space. But the idea is that we've got to have high evidence density, meaning that you have verifiable claims in your content in order for them to select it and then use it um as part of that response. And so to that end, you want to be like very clear in what you're saying. Like you want to say something like as of February 2025, you know, um this is the tactic for a runner that's a beginner

who can do this in three miles or what have you. You don't want to have like ambiguous language. And so authority and corroboration really comes into play here because they're looking for that information to be consistent across multiple sources, but they're also looking for like the net new information that may be easy to extract and valuable in this response. And in a lot of cases, freshness can be really important, too, because if if it's like uh content that has a temporal element to it, they look

for something that is dated, has like a clear um you know, indication that it's been updated and what have you, so that um you know, they can rely on that information. Um so like using dates in your structured data can be really valuable. Using a date on the page can also be really valuable. And then the last component of this is that you know they also run things through safety filters. So if you're saying something um that you know specifically for like a your money your life topic that is

questionable or something that hasn't been vetted then they are not going to use your information. And so the question comes up like why does good content not get used? You may have something that's really well written for a person that that is vague in certain places, isn't being very specific, isn't using data in a way that's really easy for them to select it from your content. So, it may get skipped because of that. And so when you you build your content, you want to make

sure that you're you're having these uh elements that are very extractable using lists, using, you know, of course headings, having uh paragraphs that are short and to the point, not really talking about a variety of subjects. And so to that end, what that ultimately means is that one, you want to have multi-dimensional content, meaning that you want content across a variety of different channels. You want it to be beyond your site. You want to cover um specific intents across a piece of content but across multiple pieces of

content. And you also need to be measuring this effectively as well. So let's let's let's get into more detail about all this stuff because the common question is like, oh yeah, this is just SEO, right? Deep breath. Deep breath. Okay. So, one thing before I get into any of this, my data driven beliefs do not require any of you to agree with me. So, if you don't agree, go for it. But I actually don't care. So, one of the first things that people say is that, you know, AI search uses

retrieval, so SEO matters more than ever. Yes, you're right. That is true. But it also presupposes the idea that the SEO community has kept up with advancements in retrieval and it frankly has not because our best practices, our software and our common understanding of how things work is so out of date, right? And so a lot of people that do good SEO that is in alignment with all this sort of stuff, absolutely, you're doing the right things. But there are also some nuances where we need to be thinking about this

more strategically across more channels that do change what it is that we do. So here's the other thing. There was a study that Zip Tai did where they basically found that if you're in the top 10 for a query that gives you a one in4 chance of appearing in AI overviews. I cannot offer a service where what we do gives you a one in4 chance. I need something that's closer to like a 80 to 90% chance that we're going to move the needle for you.

So then there are people that say things like, "Oh, show me what you do for GEO that you don't do for SEO." That is so deeply disappointing to me that the SEO community still struggles with the distinction between strategy and tactics. You can do something using the same tactics that has a different strategy. Full stop. Here's an example. What is social media marketing if it's not just channel specific content strategy? That's literally what it is. It is you are doing a content strategy with the

nuances of a different channel in mind. But despite that, it is its own category with its own line items with its own budgets. So AI search is exactly the same thing. And also you can do things in or standard organic search that makes rankings drop or visibility drop in AI search and vice versa because each of these channels cares about different things. So chatbt is using uh Bing and Google as its indices. the URLs are still being requested in real time and the nuances of how it's treating that

content is different from what Bing does. Even though Bing Copilot, although there is multiple co-pilots, it's still using its index with Chad GBT, but doing it differently. Perplexity also uses Bing and Google, but it puts citations in the foreground. It's treating things differently. So, if you don't have a different strategy for each of these channels, what are you doing? Another one I love, um, I didn't do any of that fancy GEO stuff and I'm in chat GBT in 24 hours. Okay, well, show me that for any competitive

prompt or query space. Just show me. Here's another one I really love. Chunking is a scam. Okay, let's look at this. Here's my original paragraph and I'm targeting the keywords machine learning and data privacy. And when I do cosine similarity between that paragraph and those two keywords, I get a 6481 and a 6948 respectively. Now, when I split that into two paragraphs, you'll note that the cosine similarity goes up for both paragraphs. Shocking, but chunking is a scam. If we agree that this is how how relevance is measured

through some function of comparing a query or a prompt uh the vector representation for that to the ve vector representation of the um the passages we agree that this is how these things work which we've just demonstrated from these uh white papers patents and so on. And also, if you do anything from a rag perspective, this is how all these things work. How is it that chunking is a scam? Here's the thing. You don't have to have an opinion on everything to be a thought

leader. You can just be a a quiet person when you don't know. Here's another one I like hearing. You don't have any case studies to prove that this work. Sure, I do. What you're telling me is that you don't. So, here's an example. in early days of course we've only really been able to get clients to commit to doing this stuff since the beginning of the year but for one of the vehicle sales companies um that we work with their AI search visibility is up 2x and

specifically in and that's across all channels like that we track for but specifically in chatbt they're up 661% AI overviews they're up 330%. And this really comes down to all those efforts that we talk about, you know, like restructuring content, optimizing accordingly, um, you know, all the relevance engineering things that we talk about. Now, for one of our other clients in the telecommunication space, uh, they wanted to grow their AI overviews and we're like, cool, we can do that. And of course, you know, in March, they all

grew for everybody, but nevertheless, we did these same efforts and they continued to grow after that. So again, we're seeing that, you know, uh, year-over-year, they're up 253% on that. So until we see our software catch up, what everyone is talking about is an idealistic form of SEO that most people aren't doing, right? Like if you're one of those like Python SEOs that's been playing with these sort of things for a long time, then yes, I'm sure, yes, you have been doing a lot of this stuff already, but

the majority of people that doing SEO are not doing that. And so until we have software that does more of these things for us, that's not going to change. So what do we actually do here? Like I said, relevance engineering is what we call what we do here at Eiffel Rank. And so it's really a force fourpart process. It's content auditing uh with, you know, extractability and AI readability in mind. It's doing the semantic and latent intent research. It's restructuring and augmenting content to u make it easier

to extract these um components and also making sure that we have visibility across a variety of different content types not just on the website and then it's also testing and iterating through what I call like AI simulation. So to identify the gaps first step is going to be you know pulling the rankings in the landing pages vectorizing the passages comparing that against other people's passages and then uh you know improving it effectively and so you know the tool that I built for identifying the synthetic queries is Qoria a lot of

people are forking it which I think is great because that just means that collectively as an industry we are all looking to level up and what it does is is it uses Gemini 2.5 Pro to extrapolate from the query that was inputed. It also tells you the type of uh synthetic query it is and then what the intent is for the user and then what the reasoning was why it chose that query. I have quietly updated Q4ia uh over the last I don't

know week or two or whatever and um what it has added is the routing for that synthetic query. So basically like what is the content type that is expected. So, is it an article? Is it a checklist? Is it a buyer guide? Is it a video? That sort of thing. And it also gives you the reasoning why it does that because ultimately what we need to lean into is this omnimedia content strategy. Now, there's been some feedback that, you know, QRA data isn't real enough for

you. Like, you know, you can't trust what Gemini is doing because it's probabilistic. Fine. If if that doesn't work for you, we can do it the other way where basically what we do is we take the uh URL the landing pages uh in the citations and then you look up what they rank for and then you intersect those keywords to figure out like what are the commonalities for what what actual keywords that users are actually using um uh that these pages rank for. And so in

this example, you know, the query that I put in is like what is Star Trek? And so what you're seeing in this graph here is the keywords that appear the most across all the citations and then effectively you could use those as your targets instead. But ultimately what I'm saying here is that we need omnimedia content strategies, meaning that you need to have content for video, you need to have content uh on your site, you need to have content that is, you know, audio or

whatever. And then you also need to think about like UGC and and things like that and your digital PR all those sorts of things like have that visibility because it's pulling from across that ecosystem. And then measurement also needs to evolve. You know the way we're stratifying it is in the three different buckets. So input metrics, channel metrics, performance metrics. Performance metrics are the things that you've always used like traffic and rankings and so on. Um channel metrics are going to be things like share of voice, citation rate, citation quality

and so on. And then input metrics are things like passage relevance, entity salience, bot activity, uh rankings for synthetic queries. And we're also building new dashboards that align with that as well. And then we're also tracking content performance on a very granular level as well. Uh going back to a lot of the sort of metrics that Dwayne Forester talked about too. And then on the UGC side, everyone's talking about Reddit, but it's not just Reddit. It can also be Kora, it can also be LinkedIn

Post. uh getting you know publishing on those and so on. And then for the content that we're creating, making sure that it's entity rich. Uh the language is embedding friendly. Um you know, you're having like qualifiers and you know, locations, things like that. All those related entities that I would say is look at the entity graph from like things like um you know, wiki data and so on. and then look at the related um entities and and basically incorporate content, you know, that's expected on those related entities. Structured data,

I'm not going to argue with y'all. Y'all can argue amongst yourselves as to whether or not it's being used. Uh I know it's used, so we're going to keep using it. And then for the on page elements, because SEO loves a a checklist, make sure that your heading hierarchy makes sense. So don't use like, you know, multiple H1s. Don't use them out of order because they are using those as the boundaries and they're also using those to indicate you know what is important. Have um clean semantic content have an

open robots.ext do your topical clustering you know SEO basics there. Chunking uh layout aware chunking is really what what we need to be thinking about more so than semantic chunking but you know you can use both for doing your analysis. And again, it goes back to like breaking up those paragraphs into smaller, very focused paragraphs to make them easier to extract and so that they improve on the relevance measures. And we've got a tool for that that you can use called relevance doctor that will

basically show you in a layout aware way how your scoring looks like and then you can make your adjustments. But from then it's really about like how do you better optimize those individual passages and that really comes down to things like semantic triples. So using these sentences that are structured as subject predicate object and it just becomes a lot easier for them to extract the copy and then use it. Um so write sentences like this. You know a lakehouse provides uh weekend relaxation and rental income potential for homeowners rather than

saying the pros of buying lake houses are many. like be very specific in how you're using it and then give those data driven insights as well. Like use those numbers because it's easy for them to extract using numbers from sentences and again just avoid ambiguity in all the content that you're generating. Um we have a whole flowchart of of how you can review the content. You know, it is some of it is like the qualitative things that you're looking for, but some of it is also from a perspective of like

is it clear? Is it ambiguous? Those sorts of things. And then, you know, you also want to be simulating your rankings because we have access to all the same things that these systems are using. Like we have the embeddings that Gemini uses, we have the embeddings that OpenAI uses. So we can effectively simulate what a change is going to do from how they're measuring relevance against these prompts and queries. Okay, one more thing on rank tracking. So you know you may may not know that

Google drops support for num equals 100. I've been a proponent of rank tracking being broken for a very long time. um you know it represents a context that no user actually has and to that end it's also always been to some degree probabilistic as well. But it's really funny to me that people get so concerned with the biases of the outputs and the probabil the probabilistic nature of outputs for um AI search and you know the quoteunquote rank tracking or visibility tracking there. But that's always been a problem in classic

rankings as well. And so I'm hearing that a lot of tools are going to, you know, limit rankings to the top 20, which to some degree makes sense, uh, because, you know, the reranking doesn't really go beyond the top 20. But there's also value in having all 100 as well. But at the same time, there's a lot of other dumb things that need to be fixed about rank tracking before we even consider all that. Like why are we tracking, you know, keywords that have a 30 monthly search volume when you're

tracking that daily? That 30 monthly search volume is your rank tracking. There isn't a user actually looking for that. The bigger deal is that effectively Google is changing the denominator on us by making this change and it makes everyone think that their average average position went up significantly over this last week. And of course, Google is doing a lot more on the anti-scraping side of this. So, you can expect that this is only going to get um you know, worse. So, what I would say is pay attention to the companies

that are moving quickly. A lot of them are being very thoughtful, but this also may be an opportunity for you to think about rolling your own solution. And if you are, I would recommend checking out uh Fetcher, which is a API for uh you know pulling rankings data. They've also got an open-source tracking tool. I know Paul Shapiro has his uh ranking berry. There's a lot of things out there that you could be using where you have control over what it is that you're tracking. All right, so just wrap this

up where I pull rank. We've got our AI search manual. It's 20 chapters of pure fire that goes in, you know, complete detail on all this sort of stuff. You can grab it here. Also, SEO week 2026 is coming. It's going to be even bigger than before. And that's all I got. What questions have you all got for me in these last four minutes? >> What what >> that was ridiculous. I I hope everyone's uh feeling feelings are not hurt. I I

know my mine are not. We've got a lot of great questions in the chat. Too many to go through, but we got a few minutes. So, let's go. Thank you everybody. This has been awesome. Um, so Mark um wants to know if you can share some of the points in favor of schema markup for GEO. >> No, I'm not having an argument. Use it or don't. What else we got? >> Would you would you say chunking is the same or similar to passage indexing from Sophie?

>> It is the same. Yeah, I mean passage indexing is where all this started. So that was Google's shift from looking at the page as one big thing to then looking at it as individual components instead. So yes, chunking is effectively passage indexing. >> Okay. John wants to know what tools, models or platforms do you currently use to calculate cosign similarity between prompts and keywords in multi-dimensional space? Yeah. So I mean we've got a lot of internal tools for that but it's basically just um vectorzing using uh the mixed bread

embeddings and then comparing against the query by just doing a simple cosign similarity calculation. I wrote a blog post on how you could do that in um Google Sheets as well. So it's just like you know the same sort of calculation once you've got the embeddings. Uh if you prefer you can use Gemini embeddings. uh for most of my use cases I find that you know Gemini embeddings are not as great as far as like the retrieval but ultimately we should be comparing against what it is that Google

is doing and so you know for like production cases we do typically use those. >> Awesome. Christopher wants to know is it possible to see some relationship between how an LLM might fan out query your site and content via user agents and log files? you wouldn't be able to do that because it's going to fan it out and then look at a variety of pages. So like let's say the only way you would know is if they looked at a bunch of your pages, right?

Like you could see in your your um log files that you got hit, you know, let's say like five times in like a second or whatever, you would know that that's all or it's likely that's that's all related to like the same response. Uh, but there would be no way to look at that unless we had, you know, log files for like the whole web. >> Cool. Uh, Brian wants to know, do you think agencies that offer both traditional SEO and GEO, AI SEO, etc. packages are pointless? >> What?

I I don't think I understand the question. Is it if they offer services that are AI SEO and classic SEO, it's pointless? >> I think so. >> Uh I mean it depends on your focus, right? So like if your focus is identifying all these synthetic queries and um you know creating content across that matrix and doing it in multiple formats and you're calling that SEO. Sure, you don't need both things. But if you're just doing classic SEO, which is like, hey, your page title is 60

characters and you know, we got to make sure that we get links from external sources, and you're doing that in hopes that you rank in AI overviews and chatbt, you're not you're not doing what needs to be done. >> Too many good questions. Okay, I guess this will have to be the last one, but Jan wants to know, "How do you balance entity rich text for AI with dryness that can come with it and thus can be less readable for actual people?

>> How do you how do you make your content interesting for Okay, >> I mean, it's the same problem that we've always had, right? Like you've got to account for users first and you've got to also write for a machine." Um, and you know, I used to work Devon. He called it the poetry of SEO. It's just like writing a ha coup. Like you're very constrained in the format of a ha coup. It's five syllables, seven syllables, five syllables. But that's no excuse for

it to be dry, corny or boring. It just means that you need to as you're writing or when you do your edit go back through it and say, "Okay, let's account for these things." And that's one of the values of AI because you know you can use a large language model to uh get that done. Like you can have the large language model go through and say like hey use more semantic triples in this or make this less ambiguous or use data points or whatever um for this.

>> There you go. Okay. Well, thank you Mike so much for your time. I hope you all got a lot out of this. I will send out the replay after along with the deck. Obviously hit us up if you need relevance engineering services. We cover everything and uh we have a few slots. I know we're getting to the end of the year like about to hit Q4 where budgets open up. So don't wait on that. Try to get into us because we only we we have a

certain amount of uh bandwidth through uh 2025. But and going into 2026, we're booking up already. So thank you all.
